work over the intro (#80)
freespek/ssf-mc: reports/intro.tex

\paragraph{}\colorbox{yellow}{TODO:}

We have started this project with the Python specification of accountable
safety in the 3SF Protocol\footnote{URL to the Python specification:

> \url{https://github.com/freespek/ssf-mc/3sf.txt}}. The main goal of the project

Author: True, but it is only a link to the module, not to the spec itself

was to demonstrate accountable safety of this protocol by the means of model
checking.

We have chosen the specification language~\tlap{} and the model checker
Apalache for the following reasons.\ \tlap{} remains a goto language for
specifying consensus algorithms. Among the rich spectrum of
specifications~\cite{tla-examples}, the most notable for our project are the
specifications of Paxos~\cite{lamport2001paxos}, Raft~\cite{Ongaro14}, and

> Tendermint~\cite{abs-1807-04938,TendermintSpec2020}. Since consensus algorithms

Author: Yeah, it is still work-in-progress :)

> are quite challenging for the classical model checkers such as TLC, we chose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are quite challenging for classical model checkers like TLC, we choose
```

> Apalache~\cite{Apalache2024,KT19,KonnovKM22}. Apalache was used for model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apalache~\cite{Apalache2024,KT19,KonnovKM22}. Apalache has been used for model
```

        Apalache. As a result, we are not checking this specification. This
        specification is the result of our work in Milestone 1.
        This specification is discussed in Section~\ref{sec:spec1}.

    \item \SpecTwo{}: This is the specification \texttt{spec1-2/ffg.tla}. It is
        a manual adaptation of Spec 1. The main difference between Spec 2 and
        Spec 1 is that Spec 2 uses ``folds'' (also known as ``reduce'') instead
        of recursion. This specification is discussed in
        Section~\ref{sec:spec2}.

    \item \SpecThree{}: This is the further abstraction of~\SpecTwo{} that uses
        the concept of a state machine, instead of a purely sequential
        specification (such as the Python code). This specification is
        discussed in Section~\ref{sec:spec3}.

    \item \SpecFour{}: This is an extension of~\SpecThree{} that contains
        an inductive invariant in~\texttt{spec4/ffg\_inductive.tla}.
        This specification is discussed in Section~\ref{sec:spec4}.

    \item \SpecFourB{} contains further abstractions and decomposition of
        configurations. This is the first~\tlap{} specification that allowed us

>         to show accountable safety for models of very small sizes. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        to show accountable safety for models of very small size. This
```

        specification is discussed in Section~\ref{sec:spec4b}.

    \item \SpecThreeB{} contains a specification in SMT using the theory of
        finite sets and cardinalities. In combination with the solver

>         CVC5~\cite{BarbosaBBKLMMMN22}, this specification allowed us to push

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        CVC5~\cite{BarbosaBBKLMMMN22}, this specification allows us to push
```

        verification of accountable safety even further. This specification is
        discussed in Section~\ref{sec:smt}.

    \item \SpecThreeC{} contains a specification in
        Alloy~\cite{jackson2012software,alloytools}. With this specification,

>         we managed to check all small configurations that cover the base case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        we manage to check all small configurations that cover the base case
```
